[Music]
Hi, I'm Father Mark Mary with Franciscan
Friars of the Renewal and this is the
Rosary in a year podcast where through
prayer and meditation the rosary brings
us deeper into relationship with Jesus
and Mary and becomes a source of grace
for the whole world. The rosary in a
year is brought to you by Ascension.
This is day 140. To download the prayer
plan for rosary in a year, visit
ascensionpress.com/rosary in a year or
text riy to
333777. You'll get an outline of how
we're going to pray each month and it's
a great way to track your progress. The
best place to listen to the podcast is
in the Ascension app. There are special
features built just for this podcast and
also recordings of the full rosary with
myself and other friars. On behalf of
myself and the whole team here at
Ascension, we wanted to take this
opportunity to thank everyone who's
helped support this podcast financially.
Your support is so appreciated and helps
us to reach as many people as possible.
And if you haven't already, please
consider supporting us at
ascensionpress.com/support. Today we
will be meditating upon and praying with
the second sorrowful mystery, the
scourging at the pillar with help from a
fresco of the
flagagillation that is in the church
Santa proede in Rome.
Now a brief introduction to our artist
and
artwork. This fresco of the
flagagillation. Another word for the
scourging of
Christ is Augustinino Gian Pelli. He was
born in the year 1565 and he died in the
year 1630.
He was born in Florence but would move
to Rome where he would work under the
patronage of Alessandro Demdichi and
that's where he would spend most of his
career. Our fresco today is from the
year between
1594 and 1596. And the art style or this
time period is of the broke period.
And this fresco, it's a part of a larger
cycle of eight fresco
commissioned by Cardinal Alessandro
Deichi between 1594 and 1596,
illustrating scenes from the passion of
Christ. Okay. Now, a brief description
of our
painting in a classical Roman marble
court. Jesus
stands, his arms roped behind his back,
tethered to a weighty black pillar.
He wears only a white loin cloth. His
face is sorrowful and encircled in a
glowing
halo. Three men around him wind up their
bodies as they hold up whips and
scourges, ready to strike the
defenseless
Jesus. His stripped body leans but
remains
upright. Others gather to witness. Some
face Christ, others face away.
In the front is a fresh-faced young boy
looking at
Jesus. Now, our reflection today again,
as I've mentioned previously for the
second sar mystery may not be optimal
for everyone as we will be in discussing
in some detail, not great detail
necessarily, but some detail the
particulars of our Lord's scourging. And
it's possible that this topic or my
treatment of it may upset you and be the
opposite of helpful for prayer. Feel
free to pass on the episode and just
join us in prayer
today. Now the fresco that we will be
praying with the image before us, it's a
snapshot right of this
moment right before the scourging of our
Lord begins. Right before he is scourged
for the first time, the soldiers, they
have their tools of torture in their
hand and their arms are they're pulled
back. And in a brief moment, their hands
and their weapons and the fullness of
their fury will
descend upon Jesus, the innocent lamb of
God. And we see Jesus standing there
bracing for the blows to come. And his
arms, as we mentioned, are tied behind
his back.
Around his
head radiates a golden halo. And at this
moment, his body is still strong and
pure and healthy. And around his waist
is this white loin
cloth. But in less than a second, right,
the details of this scene will change
dramatically. That white cloth will soon
turn crimson red as it is soaked.
In the blood of
Jesus, in the body of our Lord now
strong and
healthy will be torn to pieces, covered
in blood, and profoundly beaten by
blows. Even the countenance of Jesus,
the beautiful face of
Jesus, will soon lose any semblance of
beauty.
And
yet the halo of
Jesus, the artistic sign of the holiness
of our Lord and the glory of our
Lord, it will only shine brighter and
brighter and brighter.
The worst tortures of
man can do nothing to extinguish or
dim the
holiness, the glory of
Jesus. Now, I know this is a bit maybe
like imaginative and creative, but right
after Jesus is scourged, he's presented
by Pilate to those seeking to crucify
him.
And Pilate was hopeful that scourging
Jesus would appease their desire, their
bloodthirst to bring pain and suffering
upon Christ. But it doesn't
work, right? They see the scourged
Christ and they shout out, "Crucify him.
Crucify
him." But it's as if they saw the blood
so cloth, the torn skin, the bruised
face of Jesus. But also
perhaps in his countenance still,
perhaps in his eyes, they still saw his
strength. They still saw his glory. They
still saw like the halo of
Christ still shining
bright. My brothers and sisters, Jesus
is the Lord. Jesus is the way. Jesus is
the truth. Jesus is the life. And it
reminds me of St. Paul's words in his
letter to the
Romans. If God is for us, who is against
us? Who shall separate us from the love
of Christ?
Shall tribulation or distress or
persecution or famine or nakedness or
peril or
sword? As it is written, for your sake
we are being killed all day long. We are
regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No,
in all these things we are more than
conquerors through him who loved us. For
I am sure that neither death nor life,
nor angels, nor principalities, nor
things present, nor things to come, nor
powers, nor height, nor depth, nor
anything else in all creation will be
able to separate us from the love of God
in Christ Jesus our
Lord. Nothing conquers Jesus.
Not sin, not
death, but
rather Jesus conquers
all. As we pray today, let us
contemplate the strength of Jesus and
the perseverance of Jesus. Perhaps we
can imagine ourselves as the good thief
who will soon also be
condemned and placed at Jesus's side on
Mount
Calvary. And Jesus knows this is
happening. And Jesus knows to get close
to us, to look at us, and for us to look
at
him. He must endure the
scourging. And yet he says yes, right?
He fights. He loves. He stands firm. And
he pushes
forward. Like nothing can conquer
Jesus's love of you and his fight for
you.
Let us receive the gift of knowing that
we have been loved and fought for by the
Lord
himself. Look at Jesus. Look at him
fighting. Look at what he is willing to
endure. And it is in Jesus that we truly
know ourselves.
And Jesus scourged at the
pillar in obedience and love to the
father and for love of each of
us speaks these words. You are
wanted. You are
pursued. You are worth fighting
for. and
nothing can
conquer his love for
you. And now with Mary, let us pray. In
the name of the Father and of the Son
and of the Holy Spirit.
Amen. Our Father, who art in heaven,
hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come,
thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven. Give us this day our daily
bread. And forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against
us. And lead us not into temptation, but
deliver us from evil.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace. The Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus.
Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us
sinners now and at the hour of our
death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray
for us sinners, now and at the hour of
our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of
grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed
art thou among women, and blessed is the
fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary,
mother of God, pray for us sinners, now
and at the hour of our death. Amen.
Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is
with thee. Blessed art thou among women,
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray
for us sinners, now and at the hour of
our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of
grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed
art thou among women, and blessed is the
fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary,
mother of God, pray for us sinners, now
and at the hour of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of
grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed
art thou among women, and blessed is the
fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary,
mother of God, pray for us sinners, now
and at the hour of our death. Amen.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son,
and to the Holy Spirit. As it was in the
beginning, is now, and ever shall be,
world without end. Amen. In the name of
the Father, and of the Son, and of the
Holy Spirit. Amen. All right. Thanks
everybody for joining me and praying
with me again today. I look forward to
continuing this journey with you again
tomorrow. All right, Poco Poco friends.
God bless you all.